DOCS-2881: Revamp Micro-RDK docs (#4241)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/operate/get-started/other-hardware/micro-module.md

  - /installation/viam-micro-server-dev/
---

> If no existing modules support your hardware or software, you can create your own.

Reviewer: [q] the more I look at this sentence, the more I wonder if the framing is right. Some users might want to create a custom module even when their hardware/software is already supported by an existing module, right? I don't want to repeat the page description, but for an intro, maybe we should frame this in two ways:

* some users want to extend micro-rdk support to unsupported hardware (this case)
* some users want to write their own module to implement custom behavior on supported hardware

Author: Mmmm this gets into Viam philosophy a bit and applies not just to the Micro-RDK but certainly to modules in general.

One way to look at it is (sorry in advance for your nemesis scare quotes :D ): A module for a given bit of hardware should be good and enable all the things for that hardware. If that's not the case, it doesn't actually "support" your hardware. And if you want to add some layer of abstraction, that is "unsupported software"

Author: I should say, you do make a valid point, I just don't think we need to get into that level of semantics in this spot/in this PR! I'd rather keep it simple to avoid confusing the majority of users.

   Select `templates/module` when prompted, give the module a name of your choice, and answer any additional prompts.

   The CLI automatically initializes a git repository in the generated module directory.

1. Navigate into the generated module directory:

   ```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   cd <path-to/your-module-directory>
   ```

> 1. Develop the module by defining structs which implement the necessary traits and adding tests and registration hooks for them.
>    The traits you need to implement are determined by the API you chose to implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Develop the module by defining structs which implement the necessary traits, which are determined by the API you chose to implement.
```

Author: I think an eng put in the bit about hooks and tests originally--are you sure about this or is there an SME we should consult?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about the hooks but I don't think there's a need to mention tests, and overall I don't think the sentence as-is is helpful so just trying to remove the clutter for now

Author: Okay I'll simplify! I want to edit to avoid the stacked "which" (mmm is it lunch time yet?) though. How do you both feel about this:
```suggestion
1. Develop the module by defining structs which implement the necessary traits.
   The required traits are determined by the API you chose to implement.
```

Reviewer 2: I trust you on this one :D

   For example, to implement the sensor API, you need to implement `Readings`, `SensorT<f64>` and `Status` traits.

   {{< expand "Example implementation" >}}

>    Here is an example <file>src/lib.rs</file> file that implements the sensor API to return random numbers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Example that returns random numbers:
```

To reduce words, since we say "to implement the sensor API" just above

Author: ```suggestion
   The following example <file>src/lib.rs</file> file implements the sensor API to return random numbers:
```
Hmm I do want it to be a complete sentence, and I think the context of which file it is can be helpful. I also think even with the preceding sentence, it's not actually clear that this example implements the sensor API.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good

        fn get_readings(&self) -> Result<TypedReadingsResult<f64>, SensorError> {
            use rand::Rng;
            let mut rng = rand::thread_rng();
            let mut readings = HashMap::new();
            readings.insert("random_value".to_string(), rng.gen());
            Ok(readings)
        }
    }

    // Required to convert typed readings to generic readings
    impl Readings for MySensor {
        fn get_generic_readings(&mut self) -> Result<GenericReadingsResult, SensorError> {
            Ok(self
                .get_readings()?
                .into_iter()
                .map(|v| (v.0, SensorResult::<f64> { value: v.1 }.into()))
                .collect())
        }
    }

    // Basic status implementation
    impl Status for MySensor {
        fn get_status(&self) -> Result<Option<micro_rdk::google::protobuf::Struct>, StatusError> {
            Ok(Some(micro_rdk::google::protobuf::Struct {
                fields: HashMap::new(),
            }))
        }
    }

   ```

   {{< /expand >}}

   For more examples, see the [example module implementation walkthrough](https://github.com/viamrobotics/micro-rdk/blob/main/examples/modular-drivers/README.md).

> For further details on Micro-RDK development, including credentials management and developer productivity suggestions, please see the [development technical notes page on GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/micro-rdk/blob/main/DEVELOPMENT.md).

Reviewer 2: Did you use anything from this github readme in your sensor example?

If not, I think we should leave this out for now.

Author: I didn't. Seems like this could be useful for advanced users though no?

Reviewer 2: It might be, but in practice we don't have anyone who is nearly that advanced at using MicroRDK and if we do, we can always point them to the README directly. For now I think it's better to avoid clutter and overwhelm and just focus on the simple instructions for doing the common tasks that an SE may need to do

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Using Your Module

To use your module in a project:

1. Follow the [Build your firmware](/operate/get-started/setup-micro/#build-your-firmware) workflow in a different directory from your module.
   Be sure to add your module to the `dependencies` section of the project's `Cargo.toml` file.
2. [Flash your firmware](/operate/get-started/setup-micro/#flash-your-esp32) to your ESP32 microcontroller.
3. [Configure](/operate/get-started/setup-micro/#configure-and-test-your-machine) your machine to use the module.

> To update your firmware with a new version of your module without a physical connection to the ESP32 microcontroller, see [Over-the-air firmware updates](/operate/reference/viam-micro-server/manage-micro/#over-the-air-updates).

Reviewer 2: Instead of this, I think we should just add a Step 5 above that says something like:

"Follow the [Build and flash custom firmware](link) flow to test your module on a running ESP32"

Author: I kinda want to keep a "Use your module" heading to make it super quickly scannable. But I have condensed all these three steps into one sentence under "Use your module."

Reviewer 2: Hmm. Pushing back on this one more time: the reason I think it makes sense combined with the above flow is that when you're developing a module, iterating and testing is a crucial part. I think with it split out into a separate section this way, a user may not realize that's how they should test.

Reviewer 2: Calling it "Test your module" sounds like a good middle ground

        fn get_readings(&self) -> Result<TypedReadingsResult<f64>, SensorError> {
            use rand::Rng;
            let mut rng = rand::thread_rng();
            let mut readings = HashMap::new();
            readings.insert("random_value".to_string(), rng.gen());
            Ok(readings)
        }
    }

    // Required to convert typed readings to generic readings
    impl Readings for MySensor {
        fn get_generic_readings(&mut self) -> Result<GenericReadingsResult, SensorError> {
            Ok(self
                .get_readings()?
                .into_iter()
                .map(|v| (v.0, SensorResult::<f64> { value: v.1 }.into()))
                .collect())
        }
    }

    // Basic status implementation
    impl Status for MySensor {
        fn get_status(&self) -> Result<Option<micro_rdk::google::protobuf::Struct>, StatusError> {
            Ok(Some(micro_rdk::google::protobuf::Struct {
                fields: HashMap::new(),
            }))
        }
    }

   ```

   {{< /expand >}}

   For more examples, see the [example module implementation walkthrough](https://github.com/viamrobotics/micro-rdk/blob/main/examples/modular-drivers/README.md).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

For further details on Micro-RDK development, including credentials management and developer productivity suggestions, please see the [development technical notes page on GitHub](https://github.com/viamrobotics/micro-rdk/blob/main/DEVELOPMENT.md).

> ## Use your module

Author: ```suggestion
## Test your module
```

> To use your module with your ESP32, follow the [Build and flash custom firmware](/operate/get-started/setup-micro/#build-and-flash-custom-firmware) workflow in a different directory from your module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use your module with your ESP32, follow the [Build and flash custom firmware](/operate/get-started/setup-micro/#build-and-flash-custom-firmware) workflow in a separate directory.
```

[opt] 'different directory from your module [directory]' is a bit wordy, I wonder if this conveys the same idea in fewer words? Up to you.
